Richthofen

Introduction:
“Richthofen” is a WWI Air Combat Card Game. You play the part of a famous ace fighter pilot, 
taking to the skies to engage your enemy in the life and death struggle of air combat above the muddy trenches of the Great War.

The Object of Game:
Simple. Shoot down your opponent.

The Deck:
You play with a single deck of 31cards, not counting your pilot or aircraft card.

Pilot Card :
Aircraft Card:
The Dice:
  The dice is used to keep track of your airframe points. You start the game with eight (8). 
  When you have had your airframe reduced to zero (0) you are shot down.

Setup:
Sort all the action cards into piles, separated by the medal icon on the card back. 
The two medal icons are the Blue Max, for the Germans, and the Victoria Cross for the allies.

Select, a pilot card and an aircraft card. place your aircraft card in the middle of the table facing your opponents aircraft card,
place your pilot card in fron of you and draw four (4) cards into your hand.

Phases of play:
Disengaged Phase:
  DP-1) Determine which pilot has the advantage.
  
  DP-1) Determine Advantage:
  When pilots are disengaged, you need to determine who gains the Advantage. 
  a) Each player flips over the top card of their deck, compare burst values, highest burst value wins the initiative. 
  If tied, repeat a). 
  The player who gains the advantage is the attacker and the loser is the defender. 
  
Combat Phase: 
  CP-1) Clear jammed guns. (as Required)
  CP-2) Play maneuvers (Required)
    a) Defender plays a maneuver (Required)
    b) attacker plays a monuver (Required)
  CP-3) Attacker produces burst damage (Attacker matches Defender's maneuver); Or
  CP-4) Defender gain the advantage. (Attacker can not match a Defender's maneuver)
 
  An Attacker who matched a Defender’s maneuver maintains the Advantage to start the next Combat Phase.
  A Defender who's maneuver is unmatched by the Attacker, now become the Attacker for the next Combat Phase.
  
  The Combat Phase continues until one player has been shot down or players become disengaged.

CP-1) Clear jammed guns: (as Required)
  During the game a you may have your guns jam. 
  To unjam your guns, flip over the top card from your deck, if the burst value is a one (1) then your guns are unjammed. 
  If the burst value is greater than one (1), your guns remain jammed. 
  
  During play, you can play the “Clear Jammed Guns” card at any time from your hand to clear jamed guns.

CP-2) Playing Maneuvers: (Required)
  Maneuvers are only played during the combat phase and are used to simulate aircraft maneuvering during a dog fight. 
  A player must play a maneuver from a card in their hand. 
  
  a) The defender chooses one of the two defensive maneuvers printed on any of the cards in their hand, or plays
  an Advanced Maneuver Printed on any card in their hand.
  The Defender plays the card, by placing it on the table and announces the maneuver that they are performing. 

  b) The attacker must play a maneuver from their hand. If the attacking maneuver does not match the maneuver 
  that the defender played, then the attacker has failed to match maneuvers. (See e) Gaining the advantage next combat phase. 
  If the attacking maneuver matches the defensive maneuver, the attacker can produce burst damage.

CP-3) Produce Burst damage
Once maneuvers are matched, the attacker can produce burst damage. This is called a “Burst Attack”. To produce a “Burst Attack”, 
flip over the top card of the attacker’s deck, the burst value that is printed on that card is the number of burst damage you subtract 
from the defender’s airframe value.

The attacker now has one chance to modify the burst damage produced. This is done by playing an appropriate card or cards from the 
attacker’s hand. If the attacker cannot or does not wish to play any cards from their hand, then they pass.

The defender now has one chance to modify the burst damage produced. This is done by playing an appropriate card or cards from the 
defender’s hand. If the defender cannot or does not wish to play any cards from their hand, then they pass.

CP-4) Gaining the advantage:
If an attacker is unable to match a defensive maneuver, the defender gets a chance to gain the advantage and avoid becoming disengaged. 
To gain the advantage, the defender needs to match the last attacking maneuver played by the attacking player. 
If the defender matches the maneuver, then the defender becomes the attacker. If the defender fails to match the maneuver, 
then the pilots are considered disengaged. If the defender is not required to try and gain the advantage and may pass on playing a 
maneuver to become disengaged.

Drawing Cards:
  When a card is played from a players hand, if they have less cards in their hand than their min. hand size, they immediately draw a card into 
  their hand, back to their min. hand size.

Shot Down:
When an aircraft’s airframe value has been reduced to zero (0) or less, the aircraft has been shot down. 
To determine if your pilot survives the crash, flip over the top card from your deck, if the burst value is three (3) 
or four (4) then your pilot is killed in the crash.

Loss of control:
During the game a pilot may lose control of their plane either by stalling the aircraft or going into a spin as the 
result of failing an “Advanced Maneuver”. To resolve the effects of a stall or spin, flip over the top card from your deck, 
if the burst value is a four (4) then you are unable to regain control of the aircraft and crash, losing the game. 
Any other burst value means that you have regained control of your aircraft, and you suffer one (1) airframe damage 
to your aircraft. If the defender loses control of their aircraft, the attacker can produce one (1) “Burst Attack”. 
The pilots are now considered disengaged.

Discarding:
All used cards go into the discard pile. When your deck runs out of cards, shuffle your discard pile and use it to replenish your deck.

Hand Size:
Hand size is a minimum of four (4) cards. If you ever have less than four (4) cards in your hand, draw up to four (4) cards.

Credits:

Game Concept: Michael A. Maners

Lead Designer: Michael A. Maners
Co-Designer: Mark Jerome
